Duties and areas of responsibility should be segregated to reduce opportunities for unauthorized or unintentional modification or misuse of the organization’s assets.Networks should be adequately managed and controlled, in order to be protected from threats, and to maintain security for the systems and applications using the network, including information in transit.Audit logs recording user activities, exceptions, and information security events should be produced and kept for an agreed period to assist in future investigations and access control monitoring.An access control policy should be established, documented, and reviewed based on business and security requirements for access.The allocation and use of privileges should be restricted and controlled.Management should review users’ access rights at regular intervals using a formal process.Users should only be provided with access to the services that they have been specifically authorized to use.Groups of information services, users, and information systems should be segregated on networks.All relevant statutory, regulatory, and contractual requirements and the organization’s approach to meet these requirements should be explicitly defined, documented, and kept up to date for each information system and the organization. All identified security requirements should be addressed before giving customers access to the organization’s information or assets.Agreements with third parties involving accessing, processing, communicating or managing the organization’s information or information processing facilities, or adding products or services to information processing facilities should cover all relevant security requirements. The access rights of all employees, contractors and third party users to information and information processing facilities should be removed upon termination of their employment, contract or agreement, or adjusted upon change. Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades, and new versions should be established and suitable tests of the system(s) carried out during development and prior to acceptance. Detection, prevention, and recovery controls to protect against malicious code and appropriate user awareness procedures should be implemented. Policies and procedures should be developed and implemented to protect information associated with the interconnection of business information systems. There should be a formal user registration and de-registration procedure in place for granting and revoking access to all information systems and services. A policy, operational plans and procedures should be developed and implemented for teleworking activities. Plans should be developed and implemented to maintain or restore operations and ensure availability of information at the required level and in the required time scales following interruption to, or failure of, critical business processes. A single framework of business continuity plans should be maintained to ensure all plans are consistent, to consistently address information security requirements, and to identify priorities for testing and maintenance. Users should ensure that unattended equipment has appropriate protection. Inactive sessions should shut down after a defined period of inactivity. Procedures for monitoring use of information processing facilities should be established and the results of the monitoring activities reviewed regularly. Logging facilities and log information should be protected against tampering and unauthorized access. System administrator and system operator activities should be logged. Management responsibilities and procedures should be established to ensure a quick, effective, and orderly response to information security incidents. Back-up copies of information and software should be taken and tested regularly in accordance with the agreed backup policy. Procedures for the handling and storage of information should be established to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure or misuse. Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls should be in place to protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication facilities.Media containing information should be protected against unauthorized access, misuse or corruption during transportation beyond an organization’s physical boundaries. Information involved in electronic commerce passing over public networks should be protected from fraudulent activity, contract dispute, and unauthorized disclosure and modification. A formal policy should be in place, and appropriate security measures should be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and communication facilities. Data input to applications should be validated to ensure that this data is correct and appropriate. Validation checks should be incorporated into applications to detect any corruption of information through processing errors or deliberate acts. Data output from an application should be validated to ensure that the processing of stored information is correct and appropriate to the circumstances. The allocation of passwords should be controlled through a formal management process. Appropriate authentication methods should be used to control access by remote users. Automatic equipment identification should be considered as a means to authenticate connections from specific locations and equipment. All users should have a unique identifier (user ID) for their personal use only, and a suitable authentication technique should be chosen to substantiate the claimed identity of a user. A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of information should be developed and implemented. Key management should be in place to support the organization’s use of cryptographic techniques